= CRM114 Controllable Regex Mutilator for Ruby

This is a Ruby interface to the CRM114 Controllable Regex Mutilator, an
advanced and fast text classifier that uses sparse binary polynomial
matching with a Bayesian Chain Rule evaluator and a hidden Markov model to
categorize data with up to a 99.87% accuracy.

* http://rubyforge.org/projects/crm114
* http://ar.to/2006/07/spam-filters-alien-technology-and-ruby-on-rails


=== About CRM114

* http://crm114.sourceforge.net
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRM114
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dr_Strangelove
* http://www.paulgraham.com/wsy.html


== Usage

The CRM114 library interface is very similar to that of the
Classifier[http://rubyforge.org/projects/classifier] project.

Here follows a brief example:

  require 'crm114'

  crm = Classifier::CRM114.new([:interesting, :boring])

  crm.train! :interesting, 'Some data set with a decent signal to noise ratio.'
  crm.train! :boring, 'Pig latin, as in lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.'

  crm.classify 'Lorem ipsum'       => [:boring, 0.99]
  crm.interesting? 'Lorem ipsum'   => false
  crm.boring? 'Lorem ipsum'        => true

Have a look at the included unit tests for more comprehensive examples.


== Dependencies

Requires the CRM114 binaries to be installed. Specifically, the '+crm+'
binary should be accessible in the current user's PATH environment variable.


== Download

To get a local working copy of the development repository, do:

  % git clone git://github.com/bendiken/crm114.git

Alternatively, you can download the latest development version as a tarball
as follows:

  % wget http://github.com/bendiken/crm114/tarball/master


== Installation

The recommended installation method is via RubyGems. To install the latest
official release from RubyForge, do:

  % [sudo] gem install crm114

To use the very latest bleeding-edge development version, install the gem
directly from GitHub as follows:

  % [sudo] gem install bendiken-crm114 -s http://gems.github.com


== Resources

* http://www.elegantchaos.com/node/129 (crm.py)
* http://rubyforge.org/projects/classifier/
* http://rubyforge.org/projects/bishop/


== Author

* Arto Bendiken (mailto:arto.bendiken@gmail.com) - http://ar.to


== License

All source code is available under the terms of the MIT license. For more
information, see the accompanying LICENSE file.
